The Republic of Innes Slovenia coin. It was made from the Bitcoin blockchain as source code and modified to work on a newer Ubuntu Server version.

Made by a 14-year-old (literally) Taj Pocrnja Zupan, published on the 28th of November 2025 in Slovenia.

Trois coin is a cryptocurrency run by an old ASUS laptop. It was made by forking the Bitcoin source code on Ubuntu Server.

Firstly, I had to clone the Bitcoin repository from GitHub and rewind the version back to V22 so old hardware wouldn't cause any problems. After that, I had to change the code strings that “brand” Bitcoin to my own (Bitcoin → TROIS coin, BTC → ISC, and Satoshi → TROIS). After that, the ports Bitcoin uses. They were located in the chainparams.cpp file. Bitcoin uses port 8333 to connect to other nodes, port 8332 for RPC which is mostly used in commands, and port 18333 used by Bitcoin Testnet. I changed the Mainnet listening port (8333) to 9333, the Testnet listening port (18333) to 19333, and the JSON-RPC port (8332) to 9332. After that, I had to change pchMessageStart (0–3) codes to my own. These are essentially codes computers use to connect to the node. I changed the first one to 0xfa, the second one to 0xce, the third one to 0xb0, and the fourth one to 0x0c. I kept consensus.nSubsidyHalvingInterval at the same value as Bitcoin, which was 210000. It tells you after how many blocks mined the reward gets cut in half. After that, I had to “mine” my own first genesis block. I did that with a simple Python program to calculate the nonce and left everything else the same. After that, I executed the autogen.sh file, which makes a configuration script. I first ran it without the wallet GUI and without tests, but that failed due to a conflict between the new Ubuntu Server and the Bitcoin node, which works only with Berkeley DB 4.8 to create the wallet.dat file, but the version I used didn’t have Berkeley DB 4.8, but it had Berkeley DB 5.3. Then I ran the make command to convert the C++ code into binary. After that finished, I created a config file and rpcpassword, rpcuser... After that, I started the daemon and it worked but there were zero blocks mined currently. After that, I installed Berkeley DB 4.8 which allowed me to clean the last make and redo the process (make). After that finished, I ran the command (./src/bitcoin-cli -conf=/home/youruser/.mycoin/mycoin.conf generatetoaddress 1 “[ADDRESS]”) to start mining the first block but it didn’t work, due to a limit that was set to 2 million which would only allow the computer to calculate 2 million times. So I added an attribute to the end to increase the limit to 999999999.

And that was how the first TROIS block was mined.
